We already had a look at a lot of important SASS features until now,
let's have a look at some built-in functions.
Actually we saw one in the last video, map-get is a function provided by SASS to extract the value from
a map
but there are more
and you can click that link here to find a list of all the functions SASS ships with.
These are a couple of functions you already know from CSS, like RGB but then also new ones like red,
to just get the red component of a color you pass as a value.
Now to be honest, all these color functions as well as opacity functions are really interesting,
so let me show you where you could benefit from using them. Back in our project,
there is one line in our code, here where I get a very light purple in the sass-introduction.
Now of course, I can select this manually but the downside again is that if I ever change my main color
here, this brighter version of it might not fit it anymore.
Of course I could define it up here too and always change it when I change this but sometimes you just
want to have this color depend on your main color and just create a brighter, a lighter version of your main color.
So what we can do is we can use a function for this,
we can go here
where we use the background and use the lighten function, like this. That is also a function provided
by SASS.
The first argument here is a color, so we can use map-get again to get our main color.
The second argument is the amount by which you want to lighten it
and if you have a look at the official docs here, you'll see that lighten here takes an amount between
0 and 100%,
so we can lighten this by let's say 70%.
And now if I save this and if I go back to my page here, you'll see the color appears slightly change,
it's a bit too dark.
Let's ramp this up to 80%
and now it's way too light,
so maybe the truth is somewhere between 72% maybe. If we do that,
that looks good.
Now we can copy that code here and also use it in the second place where we use the lighter color
and now the advantage really is that we're using this color all the time or this function and hence if
we ever change the main color, this will also adjust.
For example if we were to decide that our main color should be black, well then the background would
also adjust to a gray, so that is where this really shines and where this really helps us.
Now with that, we saw how we can use built-in functions. As you of course saw on the link
I just showed you, there are way more functions,
so definitely just dive into that function reference here and play around with them to see what you
can do with that,
what can be useful for you and what can speed up your next project creation process.